I have some questions, answer the following questions in detail reviewing only the code, not the documentation.  And please call out any missing or placeholder or stub functionality you encounter, as that can not exist in the production system.

Relating to Workday Flow:

1. Regarding answer 1: Does the capacity provider manager go through all the projects it has access to across teams to get all the workday-policies for each?  And what is the /workday-requests endpoint doing?  Are the /runner/workdays endpoints under the capacity provider API or the TreeSeed API?
2. Regarding answer 2: Doesn't this architecture violate the principle of specialized capacity providers working together on projects?  If only one capacity provider can handle an entire workday for a project, then that means that single capacity provider has to contains all of the specialized services necessary for every agent in that workday.  So if I have a Codex capacity provider that does engineering related work, but I hook into another capacity provider that is human research artifacts or assets, and both of those are needed in the same project on the same workday, would this current architecture eliminate that possibility?
3. Regarding answer 3: Why are estimate profiles on projects instead of decisions?  Are you referring to the credit conversions between native on the capacity provider execution providers or the actual estimates for work that agents submit?  Agent estimates on decisions and feedback is supposed to be created as notes in the project linked to the other relevant content.  Also are the capacity grants in native capacity (wall minutes in Codex for example) or credits?  ANd what makes the translation between native and internal credits?
4. Regarding answer 4: Explain lanes, grants, activeReservations, estimateProfiles, and derivedCapacity in more detail?
5. Regarding answer 5: Who is creating the tasks that are admitted?  And how are credit estimates created?  How is the provider, lane, grant, estimate profile, reservation payload, routing decision payload, ledger entry, and capacity Metadata chosen, and by whom?
6. Regarding answer 6: Explain the refresh_project_graph and scan_codebase_documentation_surface processes?  Why is a very specific implementation like scan_codebase_documentation_surface in the actual agent framework?  I also don't understand the priority snapshot concept and the various task names like ${model}_review?  What are the other names and how are tasks named and assigned to agents?
7. Regarding answer 7: What function does the noop serve?  Is this for local environments that don't need scaling?  If not, is it needed and how do we handle local containerized execution?
8. Regarding answer 8: How and when exactly does the manager seed tasks?  I need to know the execution contract between the manager, which seems to decide what gets done, the TreeSeed API which seems to control the assignments, and the agents and runners which have to execute them?  Also where is the SDK searching for tasks with the state, waiting, queued, and pending?  And what is the ordering mechanism for these tasks?
9. Regarding answer 9: How do tasks relate to assignments?  What is the manual|auto and invocation parameters to the kernel.runAgent(...) method?
10. Regarding answer 10: Explain the trigger resolver process in more detail?  When you mention a gap of message creation in handlers cratching errors silently and the issues with providerCreateMessage(...) are those bugs that should be fixed?  What issues does this gap create?
11. Regarding answer 11: When a task, planning or acting, pauses, how does it get unpaused and approved?  Our only mechanism for approving work is decisions.  What would happen is we made all content modification in the planning mode approved if you had access to edit the project (if you didn't you shouldn't be receiving the job in the first place).  In fact why do we have to worry about this process if approvals are already baked into the API assignment, or is that a separate capacity provider access configuration?  Either way, how do we guarantee our jobs when they end up at an assignment can not fail because of lack of approval?  This stage is too late for an access check?  If this is purely a resource or capacity decision then I can understand (like we ran out of capacity for the workday and we must resume the next workday).  Capacity issues are understandable reason for pause (as long as we save the state somehow), but access issues should be handled before we get to assignment.
12. Regarding answer 12: Give me an example of the kind of data or limits in the capacity boundaries and when is this measured?  When would an agent cross the boundary after assignment, creating an approval / continuation request?  Is this related to capacity issues, like if a agent burned through all their allotted credits without finishing the task?
13. Regarding answer 13: Does local worker path referr to the environment local or is that another concept.  If it is pertaining to the local environment, what is the difference between local and the staging / production environments, and why the difference? 
14. Regarding answer 14: When you describe the manager seeding from a priority snapshot, what do you mean?  What are build-in research questions?  It sounds like we need a dedicated planning mode execution differentiation that allows agent classes to be allocated a percent of total planning capacity for the day then agents splitting the agent class allocation equally if there are different agents with the same agent class, the agents loop during the planning session using up their planning budget with self guided work unless they have decision approved work.  This way every agent runs with it's own agenda for the amount of credits that it is allocated for planning, which could involve answering questions related to it's function, creating feedback on proposals and decisions, and creating questions, proposals, and updating knowledge.  Tell me how we get to that modelfrom our current planning_input_requests and test synthesis model?

Relating to Agent Architecture:

1. Regarding answer 1: Do we need both?  It seems like runAssignment(...) is the one we really want to create a standardized process, am I wrong?  How do we eliminate duplicate functionality and standardize this process?
2. Regarding answer 2: Give me an example of how the Codex prompt is split up so I can see the order of the information, and tell me what other configurations are fed into the Codex execution?  I need to understand the context generation a lot deeper than I do now.
3. Regarding answer 3: Are you saying the handler itself writes files through the context.mutations.writeArtifact(..) call?  If so this is attroiciously wrong, because what we need is to allow the AI to write and modify files in the execution provider by controlling the prompt.  This should be a tool that the AI agent should call if we need this abstraction, so why is it not?  If I understand what you are saying this is a BIG design flaw.  If I've got it wrong, please explain how?
4. Regarding answer 4: Is it correct that the capacity provider manager creates tasks based on triggers that then become assignments executed by the agent?  How does the agent decide what triggers to execute based on it's action during the current agent cycle?  Also how does TreeSeed know all the created or updated files?
5. Regarding answer 6: Describe one of these execution snapshots in more detail?  How does it know what information to include in the trigger payload?  Also how are execution messages delivered during the course of the assignment delivered or stored?  For instance, Codex outputs messages as it is performing it's job over time and we want to make sure and capture all the output and messages.
6. Regarding answer 7: Are the permissions for content specified in the agent specification in their content definition?  Do we have a way to allow content per mode in these permissions?  Or if we do have configurable permissions, which we should, do we have a blanket collection of content permissions across modes?
7. Regarding answer 8: Ok, I think this is going totally in the wrong direction.  Research is not a deterministic algorithm and we should never have "built-in" content.  Research should function like any other AI capable agent / execution provider.  These research agents should subscribe to triggers for creation and updates of questions and they should create nodes on those questions, linked to book knowledge that they create and manage over time.  This can not be known by a purely deterministic process.  So why are we so far off the mark here?  Why are our research agents basic deterministic functions and why do we have "built-in" content?
8. Regarding answer 9: What is the actual structure of the prompt for Codex and GitHub CoPilot execution providers?  I think it is just fine that the execution providers have different ways of processing the content and input, as long as it all makes it into the agent execution provider correctly, and each execution provider creates the best input for the implementation possible.

Relating to Provider and Execution Provider Link:

1. Regarding answer 1: Is the capacity provider API still used and useful or is it a relic of the past?  I need to know if it is required or valuable for the new architecture.
2. Regarding answer 2: So it sounds like the SDK and TreeDX adapter are both scoped to the permission of the agent, which is good.  Where are these permissions configured?  Also what tools do we expose to the agent AI execution providers?  And is the MCP server implementation actively being used or just exist?
3. Regarding answer 3: This tool process is bad.  Why are we not exposing the tools to the agent AI while we have them and a MCP server?  We should be able to expose certain tools and trsd commands to the agents.  Since tool calling is a major aspects of AI agents these days why are we not taking advantage of it?  We should definitely not be returning TASK_WAITING.
4. Regarding answer 4: This is exactly why we need tools.  We have adapters for things but then require the deterministic handler to write the files with the adapter interfaces.  This is wrong.  The agent should have the flexibility to use the tools exposed to the handler internally instead of the handler having to parse output of the execution provider and then write files.  This is a truly fucked up architecture.  Why was it built like this?  Aside from  my negligence for letting it happen.
5. Regarding answer 5: When you say selection order in provider runner is assignment fields/metadata/capacity envelope/decision metadata, falling back to codex, unless plan, that still doesn't tell me what order and what is setting that configuration and where?
6. Regarding answer 6: How do we set configurations for execution providers like Codex for the agents?  Also why do we return empty arrays when we are trying to collectUsage(...) and collectArtifacts(...) since this is critical information for adjusting out credit estimates over time?
7. Regarding answer 7: I think our AI agent handlers need an architecture refresh.  The fact that we have to write files outside of the AI agent and that we don't even capture the messages says this execution provider architecture sucks (big time).  It's basically constraining the agent to fit deterministic tasks, which is not what we want.  How do we di ourselve out of the shit we're drowning in because of this bad agent architecture?
